# YanqiaoChen Artifact

## Table of Cotents

- [YanqiaoChen Artifact](#yanqiaochen-artifact)
  - [Table of Cotents](#table-of-cotents)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Motivation](#motivation)
  - [Related Work](#related-work)
  - [Technical Details](#technical-details)
  - [Running Tree Sitter Examples](#running-tree-sitter-examples)
    - [Premise](#premise)
    - [Environment Setup](#environment-setup)
    - [Run the parser](#run-the-parser)
  - [Future Plans](#future-plans)

## Introduction

This is Yanqiao's Artifact Repository for the 23-24 Allegheny senior session. This artifact will demonstrate the feasibility of my senior project: Dynamic interactive code relationship map VSCode extension.

## Motivation

While programmers work, it's nearly impossible to avoid reading nd understanding codes either written by others or yourself. The procedure of reading codes could be painful and time-consuming because of both external and internal reasons like variant or bad documentations, code designs or even coding styles. Code visualization tools represent code in a more intuitive approach while keeping the valuable information about the code. I am inspired by the convenience introduced by code visualization tools and plan my own code visualization tool. While there exists abundant code visualization tools, few of them aims to visualize static inner code relationships among code scopes like function definition/calling. It's a gap my work will fill.

## Related Work

- [Aiding programmers using lightweight integrated code visualization](https://doi.org/10.1145/2846680.2846683)
- [A catalogue of lightweight visualizations to support code smell inspection](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1409720.1409733)

## Technical Details

Get code from VSCode extension. Use a general code parser `tree-sitter` to parse high-level codes to an intermediate code structure. And find code relationships and represent them into graph data and tree structure. Finally display code relationship into a dynamic interactive graph generated by VSCode webview API.

## Running Tree Sitter Examples

This section aims to provide an example of tree sitter parsing source code to code structure.

### Premise

To run the example program, **Node** runtime environment and **npm** package manager are required. Here are documentations on how to download them.
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/npm
- https://nodejs.org/en/download

### Environment Setup
* Go to the directory `tree-sitters`
* Run `npm install`
  
### Run the parser

`parser.js` parses a file from file system to code structure and log the code structure in terminal. Currently the example program only supports Java, Python and JavaScript as input languages.

Here is an example command:
```
node parser.js --lang python --file python_ex/ex_parsee_1.py
```

Note: `lang` flag accepts: 1. java 2. python 3. javascript

## Future Plans

- Check the feasibility of fetching code with VSCode
- Interact Node-Tree-Sitter with VSCode